---
layout: post
title:  "Let's be Open to Criticism"
author: Desmond Daniels 
position: left 
---
Manhattan College was founded in 1853 by a group of Christian brothers who sought to carry out De La Salle’s mission of uplifting lives through education, with an emphasis on enabling the poor class to obtain an education. I would like to think that Dorothy Day, an American journalist turned activist, who is well known for her social justice campaigns in defense of the poor, forsaken, homeless, and hungry, was very happy with the initiatives taken by the De La Salle brothers in founding this campus. Fast forward to 2022, Manhattan College boasts more than 100 programs in six distinct schools with 3,894 students and 240 full-time faculty members. This is great, right? A college with a mission that places emphasis on uplifting lives through education for the poor experiencing growth of  this magnitude should indicate success. When you go to Manhattan College’s website, you can find that for the sixth consecutive year, they have ranked in the top 15 best regional universities. Manhattan College has also been named one of Forbes 300 best value colleges, showing continuous return on investment. These are all outstanding achievements, especially for a school whose core values emphasize helping the poor through education! I am here to find out at what cost. Was this success at the cost of its mission of helping the poor? Manhattan College, per their website, states that the “estimated total cost of attendance for new students entering for the academic year 2022-23 who live on campus this including tuition, program fee, room and board, comprehensive fee- new admit, books and supplies, miscellaneous living expenses, and transportation will total out to be $70,398. This is a staggering sum to pay for a college education, especially at a school that promotes Lasallian Values. For purposes of perspective, the median household income in the US is $67,521.

To make matters worse, Manhattan College is in the Bronx, NY where the median household income is $44,130 with a household poverty rate of 28.4 percent. This is significantly higher than the other four boroughs. Ironically, Manhattan college is ranked 149th in New York State pertaining to tuition costs. This does not correlate to the mission of the founders to help the poor, rather, this sounds like Manhattan College is not even accessible to the middle class— let alone the poor. Adding salt to the wound, imagine how the local community who is directly around the campus must feel knowing that a good education is right next door,  yet completely unaffordable and out of reach for the average citizen in the community. Dorothy Day was mentioned earlier because she was invited to and studied at Manhattan College years ago. She was offered an honorary degree which she turned down. The rumor is that she turned it down because of the ROTC program at Manhattan College— keep in mind that Day is a pacifist. The question arises: was that the only reason? Dorothy said in one of her writings “[l]ove of brother means voluntary poverty, stripping oneself, putting off the old man, denying oneself”. Though I can see how Manhattan College could successfully operate in harmony with Dorothy’s values if changes were made, the current operation makes me question if it was even reasonable to ask Dorothy if she wanted an honorary degree. With her belief in voluntary poverty and it being one of her core values, anyone who did minimal research would know her stance. How could Dorothy attach her name to a private institution that is not only extremely high in price any way you compare it, but also located in one of the poorest boroughs in the city and doing the opposite of what she believes in? As you read this article, you may think it is all about discrediting Manhattan College, but it is not. Manhattan College has done outstanding things that they should be proud of. Being nationally ranked and winning numerous awards pertaining to the value of the degree, where students are landing jobs upon graduation along with other things is nothing short of an achievement. The purpose of this article is to show that despite these accolades, Manhattan College has strayed away from its founding brother’s reasons for starting this institution in the first place. This article was written in hopes to raise awareness and initiate change— a change towards making this college available for not only the above-average family who can afford it, but to everyone as the founders intended.



<!--more-->
