---
layout: post
title:   Accessibility, and The Bridge on Manhattan College’s Campus
author: Written by student
image: https://external-content.duckduckgo.com/iu/?u=https%3A%2F%2Fi2.wp.com%2Fmcquad.org%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2014%2F04%2Fdorm3.jpg&f=1&nofb=1
position: right
image_caption: Horan Hall Bridge - Manhattan College
---


For the residents of Horan, and Lee hall, The Bridge is beloved. It cuts time getting to classes and gives Locke's Loft easy access. When the bridges were closed in the Spring of 2021 due to COVID-19 concerns, there was no set date for them to reopen. The Bridge, while a convenience, is also the only way that campus becomes accessible to students using mobility aids to get around campus. I myself experienced this first hand after getting hip surgery in January of this semester. I reached out to numerous people in Residence Life as well as the Specialized Resource Center. I was told that the bridge could not be opened, that campus was accessible from Lee Hall, and that they could give me a new room across campus in Jasper Hall. I was puzzled and left with no choice but to navigate campus.

To put this into perspective, when leaving the main entrances of Lee and Horan Halls you turn right and go up a slight incline, from here you walk between Thomas Hall, and the O’Malley library until it leads you to two separate sets of stairs. You can go up towards the second-floor entrance to Thomas which leads you to an elevator, or you can go down towards the library and take the admissions elevator. As the only two options there they both include stairs. Navigating stairs while on crutches is frightening, especially when there are no other options present. 

The option with the bridge is that once you exit the dorm you take a left walking past Draddy Gymnasium and into Walsh Plaza which leads you to the Thomas hall bridge giving you access to the quad and main campus with an elevator. While this may seem insignificant to someone who is not using a mobility aid. However, my story is not unique. I am one of at least a dozen students since the Spring of 2021 who have been put in this position of struggling to figure out how to navigate the many stairs of Manhattan College. 

There has been an outcry from the students as well with an @openthebridgemc account popping up last fall with a link to a change.org petition that amassed 432 signatures. Within that petition there was a note from the author that noted that when the fire alarms go off that these doors do not unlock. When students have asked this semester we have been met with there would be no one to staff the bridge, however, in the past when the bridge was open it was only staffed by an Resident Assistant after 7 pm. 

The student newspaper The Quadrangle wrote an article after these accounts started to pop up. They interviewed Interim Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students, Esmilda Abreu-Hornbostel, Ph.D. on her thoughts. “Although the bridges remain closed at the moment, Abreu-Hornbostel claims they will ‘absolutely’ reopen again, but the time for that is undetermined.” (Rodriguez, DeFazio, Nappi).  As of the writing of this article there has been no talk of the reopenings

As of right now there is no glaringly obvious reason for the bridge to be closed. COVID-19 cases are down (or at least enough to have mask optional classes), having the bridge closed now seems contradictory from a COVID-19 stance. I feel as though most students, myself included would like more transparency on issues like these that directly impact our day to day lives. Campus needs to become more accessible to those in need. It is clear that this is something that many students are passionate about given the numerous attempts and the attention that this has gotten. Giving students the option to participate and not get shut down when they voice what they want from their school. Even though we are nearing the end of the semester it is still clear that students want the school to open the bridge. 
Senator McCain fought long and hard in this campaign. And he's fought even longer and harder for the country that he loves. He has endured sacrifices for America that most of us cannot begin to imagine. We are better off for the service rendered by this brave and selfless leader.
